Hello everybody and welcome to another edition of tech see or Time Podcast Edition where we were Tuxedos and it is time.We're not going to talk about the blouse that I'm wearing right now because it's very ugly and embarrassing.You look like a giant pumpkin.Yeah.This is an orange and a miniature pumpkin shit guys.Are you calling me fat in the pocket is over.Thanks, which ended in divorce just My shirts really ugly.It's my Halloween shirt, but it was only sure that I can find it says Nightmare Before coffee and it's bright orange, believe it or not.
You just will not be document.Nope.This isn't this is what we call an illegal tuxedo.Do not today.We're kind of going to talk a little bit about monetization money money money money money money money.Well, first of all the anybody tuning to this probably sees us on YouTube.Would that be a safe assumption? I would think so.I don't know why anybody else will click on the title. Tell tuxedo time without knowing what it is.Yeah, this is a fairly obscure podcast probably only for people who tune into our YouTube channel, correct? So they probably know that we have not until recently monetized.Yes our Channel and for those that don't know much about YouTube monetization just means making money off of the content we produce correct and there's a number of reasons why we couldn't do that, but first of all, I do want to say that I'm officially a full-time YouTuber.I no longer have a part-time job fun. Definitely had a part-time job for less like two years since we've been in Buffalo.Yeah, I don't know if everybody knows that.Yeah, probably not I guess to preface all of this like monetization on YouTube how to make money from YouTube.
We're going to rewind a little bit and spill a little bit of like the story the immigration story of kind of how we got to America and kind of what happened there why I had to close off all the monetization why we couldn't make any money from the channel for two years.So rewind to 2016 what we started YouTube channel and we had less than  A thousand subscribers we didn't start at zero technically.Well technically be starts at 0 but you we repurposed your YouTube channel from college.We did I 300 subscribers and I didn't want to start from scratch which was a mistake.We should have started from scratch which is why we have the roadkill CNA username channel name, but that's a different time.So we started this YouTube channel and we started with 300 subscribers and we were living in Vancouver.But at the time we also were doing blog content content on Instagram and we were just starting to  That stuff so it seemed kind of like a natural progression.
We started YouTube.Oh, we should eventually monetize our YouTube channel back.Then there was there were no Milestones.Every anybody could monetize we had ads running on all of our YouTube videos all through Vancouver despite being a channel.That was only I don't know at most a couple thousand lesson.Yeah, and this happened and this was before they had those Milestones you had to hit the number of Subs in the watch our minutes or watch hours or whatever.
The requirements are. They didn't I don't think they existed then so we could monetize pretty much from the beginning but I mean at the size of our Channel at that point it was like it was pointless it we probably made like 12 cents.Yeah, and so on our way to leaving Vancouver, we felt like we were ready to kind of start selling T-shirts with a couple of t-shirts pixel lens was just kind of starting and there are a couple of people we had some like proofs made and it's a couple of people are asking for shirt.So we're live.All right, let's make merch we've got like two thousand. On YouTube and pixel lenses are photo Club if anybody wants to join it.Yes, I'll leave the link in the show notes as well.So yeah, we were set up and we're ready to go on the March during all this time.
We were like leading up to leaving Vancouver.You ended up getting your contract cut and so us going back to st.John's was the plan so monetizing and dropping the merch line would have made sense because we were saying in Canada, we're going back to Newfoundland and everything was hunky-dory because that's the way it was supposed to go to the cabin renovation.We're going to have home content on. YouTube we're gonna do like a little show ya Newfoundland travel series is all the time.Yeah, that was the the the juicy plans but then they all kind of went down the drain when your contract cut correct details on that in the show notes if you guys were curious right? So we ended up shot.Will Chris ended up shotgunning applications across the u.  s.And Canada to try to find a job kind of like scrambling Vancouver was coming to an end.
We didn't have a job.We were trying to figure out where we're going to go.We can't go home because there were no jobs.So I Fellowship was finishing it. Few months and all our plan just went up in smoke.Yeah, and it was a pretty devastating end to a really amazing start of a year, but it all worked out.I think I think so you end up getting the job in Buffalo and we ended up leaving Vancouver like two months later than we were supposed to leave.
And so we kind of like held off on the t-shirts because we didn't want to be like starting a store while we were in limbo for like four months because we were in Vancouver and we had to move home for a month. Got married, and then we had to move to Buffalo and it's just this whole thing, but then we found out that during the process of immigration to America that the only way that I could make money was through a job.
That would give me the visa to get me into the country.You being my wife despite me being an American citizen had to stay out of the country for a set amount of time until your permanent your permanent residency status was approved. And that could have been six months.It could have been a year or so.We would have been essentially living apart which doesn't doesn't doesn't really make sense.So it worked out because the company that hired me was also looking for a graphic designer / social media person and it was just a serendipitous event that they're like, oh well, we'll hire you and you basically emigrated on a TN Visa.
Yeah, which is basically like a work visa.Yeah.You got a job.They give you basically the Visa hour. Or not they don't give you the Visa but they give you the paperwork so that you can complete the Visa.You can meet the requirements to get that specific visa and then you can move or apply the border and then they decide if you like they let you in but a lot of people think because Chris is American that and we're married that I could just come to America and then that's it wrong.
So I had to get a job.I got the part time job and we had a moving date and we worked with a lawyer.We got all the paperwork ready everything that I needed to have in order to State my case at the border to get my Visa. Because I didn't have a Visa going into the state's know.I had all of the paperwork ready you in a petition signed a petition for a Visa for Visa, but I didn't know if I could actually move to America and tell the very night.
We were moving.So we left Newfoundland on November 1st 4:30 in the morning.I shipped all of my petition and my documents to my friend Christine in Toronto because they wouldn't make it to Newfoundland in time and we flew to Toronto drove to her house picked up the documents hung out a little  Lil Bit And then that entire day was basically like leading up to am I going to get into America or am I going to be turned away and going to have to stay in Canada for like a year or however long it takes me to get there because they could very well turn me away.Yeah, it could so we drive from Toronto documents in hand.You know, we got our car documents were going to bring a car across the border.I've got my petition.I'm going to bring myself across the border we get to the border and I say here are my documents.I have all my stuff and they're like, oh no you don't have anything like you. To come in here and interview and then we decide if you're going to come into the country.
So I'm like nobody really prepared me for this.That's not what I was told was going to happen.So we get pulled over we go into this like holding room you sit down and like they call you up and basically like interrogate you about your entire application.Where you working.What are you doing? Now? What are you're going to look in to be working part-time? What do you do for the rest of the time? What does your husband do? Why are you moving to America? Like do you?  You have kids.Do you have blah blah blah so all of these questions and then suddenly it was like they were asking me questions of well there.Why are they hiring you as a designer? And why are they hiring you feel like social media and video and design like you only have like a diploma for design.
So why are they hiring you for all this other stuff? Because in order to come and get a job in America, you're supposed to actually have like a degree or diploma or some sort of work and educational experience for that. They're very big on that very big.It's like it's their very old school in the sense that you know, they assumed that you had to have formal training in an area if you're going to be hired by anybody to do that job, which you had almost a probably a decade of experience at that point doing all of that stuff.
Yeah.Well, I had a business for ten years.I went to school for two years got a diploma graphic design worked in marketing company for two years and I've business for ten years where I did graphic design photography some video work and social media and so they were kind of like now no one. Like this isn't a job for one person.Like nobody does all of this stuff and I was like, well actually it's fucking 2017.Yes people do all of that stuff.And unfortunately that's kind of like the way things are going see that a lot on Twitter or people are applying for looking for jobs and companies want somebody who does web and design and social media, you know, you have to have like two and three degrees to get these jobs and you're getting paid like shit.But anyway, that's a separate thing.So anyway, so I'm there on so they're interrogating me about that.Then there's spelling mistakes in my application.We hired some did you  Okay, so spelling mistakes, then my diploma from school doesn't have a matching name as my like passport.
So my diploma from school says Becky pack on my password says Rebecca.So I have no idea.I'm like we're like attention to detail is missing and then you always think like even if you saw that on your diploma, you're thinking that whatever whatever.Yeah because like who's ever, you know back however, many 12 years ago who you're probably thinking who's ever going to need to see my actual name on this is like  That's my name and they wanted originals and copies.
So there are all these things and then suddenly they're like, oh so you have a business? So did you shut it down and I was like, wait what they're like, yeah, you're not allowed to make any money from anything except for this job that yeah, but you knew that ahead of time and I knew that but it was kind of like show me proof that your business is closed show me proof that your website doesn't exist anymore.
Show me proof that you've told your clients that yeah.It's like well my website still exist.Yeah.Well, I'm just not taking work.Yeah.And so I said like I have emails where I've told my clients like I can't do this anymore and he was like  What are you going to do? Like my application was for a part-time job.So he's like, what are you going to do for the rest of the time? It's like twiddle my thumb's hang out.
I don't know spend money in the economy is like a good answer, you know that you can't have another job like if you had another job you had to apply for a second visa and I was like, this is so much more like confusing and complicated.So anyway, I was shitting myself the entire time we were in there for like an hour and I was like, they're not going to let me in there interrogating me like all this shit and then finally after a while they were like, alright you can come and so  I was scared after that to do anything related to I mean I couldn't make money.So I was like I had to make sure that the ads are turned off on a channel.I can't do any brand Partnerships.I can't do any of the things that I had on my list of goals that I wanted to do to like grow this kind of into a business.
Yeah, and then it was it was also very very gray area because yeah, it's like, oh does you know having affiliate links that we've had set up for years? Let's say someone bought something from  I was like we actually would have to go and scrub every single video affiliate links.Like are those considered income income and then you know something that I something that you had already set up as you know, the technique will be passive income years ago.
Do you have to remove that and what about Investments if we had Investments do they have to like, you know liquidate everything because you know, so we asked our Laurel these questions and she they just were kind of like well, we don't really have an answer for you.There's nothing written about this in the law, but I would recommend to do anything in your power to  Do not give them anything.That could be a gray area.Obviously don't do anything that could fuck it up for you.Yeah tread carefully, right? So I was like, well, you didn't really give us an answer as to if we should remove all these links if we should you know, we were really making money on anyway, but we had so many videos up.It was kind of a it would be so easy for somebody to say you made like 10 cents off this therefore you made money therefore deported.Yeah, exactly.So I'm like shit baked like the whole time the whole time and people were like, oh that's like they'd come to me and I you know, they'd be like, oh, can you do work for you? Like no I can't because my  And they're like, well, that's not true.I'll work.You know, you can work on the table.Like no, I know actually I could get deported I can get literally deported like no thanks, you know.
Yeah, so it was an interesting time because it was about like a year and a half two years that we couldn't monetize but looking back.I think it was kind of like a blessing because had we before we moved with, you know, two thousand subscribers started emerge line.You can't sell merch to know audience.Yeah one person too. What you put put in all this work and then you what's a one t-shirt.There's no audience there for the mark So I do want to talk about that a little bit after we take a quick break, but about you know, making sure you have like everyone so bent about having to be able to monetize but you can't make money if you don't have an audience and you don't have the numbers.But anyway, I think it was a blessing in disguise because it allowed us to spend like that year and a half two years making videos for fun.
There was no pressure because nobody was paying us to do it we could do whatever the fuck we wanted and it allowed. To kind of like grow our Channel and have fun with it growth way.We want it to grow.Right? And before we go off the topic of the whole immigration thing.
I mean what you experience I know that you are a very nervous person at Baseline.Yeah, and that experience was you know, it's scary when someone's interrogating you essentially and just drilling you with questions.They're trying to see if you trip up right and catch catch when you traps whether it be lies or things that are against policy, but I mean that process that you went through was in fact the  Easiest way to a green card at all any of the various channels like there would be no easier way to get a green card other than having a husband who is a US citizen other than being born in America, which would essentially get you citizenship, right? Yeah.
That's the shortest path to a green card.So I mean I do feel for a lot of the families who we also saw in there who are there sitting there when we got there and still sitting there when we left? Yeah and maybe didn't even get in that night.
I mean it's it was a well that night the other time we got detained at the border. Going across and when I applied for my green card you sit there and you're like you're scared.You're nervous and you look around you're like shit.Like I have the easiest path way here and I'm shitting myself.I can't imagine how these other people feel.Yeah who don't have as easy of a Pathways I had right? You know.Yeah.But anyway, that's just an aside.Yeah.I think the funny thing was with a green card application was like having to prove that you and I have a real relationship my God, I guess.
Yeah, I guess people like selling green cards.Yeah through fake relationships is a real thing. Definitely and I try to smuggle people in the country through sham relationships and it's like well here are some photos of us when we were in high school.We first started going out you're the lawyer was like, I need you to provide like proof that you guys share finances, you know bought a house or rent agreement or whatever but like also photos of your families together of you guys together.
And so I'm like, all right break out the album's for like from like fucking 2005.Yeah, baby Chris and baby Becky just like holding hands looking like babies, you know. Times can I say baby but like maybe legit like baby baby baby baby.But yeah, it was like it was funny.It was like, okay.Well, this is pretty easy.But like I actually had to be like, here's our blog.
Here's our house.Here's a YouTube channel for the past year.We've been posting a video every single week.Yeah exactly.Now the an elaborate hoax.Can you imagine fucking 15 years in the making alright, but like you should just apply for the fucking Visa because I gotta go get it quicker than are you using me for citizenship. Mm-hmm, this been a 16-year Shannon.Yeah divorce reason for divorce 16-year immigration champ.No Chris.I'm not I did not know.We're moving to America.No, that's true.That's true on that note.
We'll take a break and when we come back we're going to talk about like the different ways you can make money from YouTube because I feel like it's such a weird thing.So for those who aren't in the world,  So I think we're going to kind of segue into how people make money on YouTube because that can be a bear a very weird topic for I mean, it's think something that we kind of just take for granted knowing about but I think they'll lay public doesn't realize that people on YouTube actually can generate Revenue.
Well, I think when people talk about other people monetizing their Channel, they just think adds you make all your money from ads, right? And that's actually probably the smallest  sliver of the pie if you will, right? So I've got like a list of five ways that you can kind of monetize your channel.The first one is actually like Google ads you put ads on your YouTube channel and then you get paid I guess a certain amount per view.
It's CPM click per mil or whatever which essentially despite being Mill it actually means thousand three zeros, depending on what Nisha and you can get different rates and there's tables online you can look up but it's not a whole lot of money.
It doesn't it doesn't add up to  Much.It's a very very tiny amount.So most people's Revenue who people who do this full time comes from other things, right? And I think when people take honey get up in arms a little bit about like I need four thousand subscribers to put ads on my channel.So it is 4,000 I think so, you're not getting paid a lot like unless you have a video that goes viral.You're not really going to get paid anything.Yeah 4,000 subscribers.So there's really like not a lot to make a big deal out of I mean, I guess it is a milestone kind of like anything but  You know people say like, oh, no, I can't monetize make money like you're not going to make money.Oh, yeah the right back.There was very controversial because YouTube YouTube came out with a minimum subscriber count and a minimum watch our account or something.
That's right.They added the watch hours.Yeah.So if you don't meet this threshold, then you weren't eligible to put ads on your channel generate Revenue, which a lot of people I think were kind of discouraged by that and up in arms about it because for them they were at one point able to monetize and now they were  Inch and they felt that that was something taken away from them.Right but I think the issue I mean realistically though anybody who had a Channel of that size.It was just like when we were trying to monetize in Vancouver because we thought it was the thing to do is just kind of wanted it right but you know, you were making pennies.
Yeah, literally pennies literal you like looking at the numbers now, I think that we've made this year and now I think what do we have now like a hundred and seventy thousand subscribers like the only Revenue we basically made is it within the last years?  Year and it's like not that much so you really have in order to make like a nice decent Revenue off of Google ads in your channel.You either had to be hidden it with buck and viral videos where you have to be like the size of Peter McKinnon.Yeah, you you when you have obviously bigger channels far bigger than ours in the million range.That's not an in Quantico inconsequential amount of money right for our Channel though.It's like oh this is like a portion of a credit card statement the amount of money that's sit there sitting there owed to us over.The last three years is like it's nothing. To bark out but it's like it doesn't even cover a credit card bill.
Yeah, it's better than a poke in the eye there.Yeah better than nothing.Oh, yeah, for sure not.Yeah.It's not a significant.You can't live off that at all know people aren't living off their ad Revenue at Channel sizes like ours, right? Okay.So the second way you can monetize your YouTube channels through affiliate links like Amazon Affiliates.I guess if you have like epidemic sound Affiliates businesses that will come on board and give you a percentage of sales.
Yeah, and for this I also think it's a similar. Thing to add it's a very small portion.So unless somebody makes like a big-ass order as order ass order.Yeah, I mean, yeah, everything has its Ebbs and flows, but it you know waxes and wanes but it it's not a whole lot of money generally speaking for our Channel right now you if you were in like the niche of a tech area where you're doing Gear reviews and that's your main thing and people are coming to you because they're actually interested in buying this. Doctor, there's probably a higher chance.They're gonna buy the product where we just put affiliate links for our gear in the description box of all of our videos.
I dare say I'll not many people who are watching our videos are like, oh, I wonder what camera they used for this shot and they go down find it.Click the link in buy it.Yeah, so we don't make hardly anything off of our affiliate links there there in case someone wants to buy them and every now and then someone might buy a big ticket item and we might see like 15 bucks.
Yeah, but it doesn't really add our Channel size.It doesn't really add up again Millions people with millions of  Of Subs, they probably are making a lot more money for that because a lot of people are just through sheer volume now driving sales, but then if you take your Google ad Revenue plus your affiliate link revenue and add them together.It's looking a lot better.Yeah.It's just, you know a little bit more a little bit more.So that's kind of one more Avenue of Revenue someone were Revenue stream.Right? And I think it's important going into this kind of thing.If you want to monetize is to have multiple revenue streams.
You can't just rely on one there has to be multiple.So the third one I  Here on my list is like merch sales or like digital products, like preset slots t-shirts, you know feel about presets.I can't that's a different OPP.I can't talk about presets.Yeah, so merch sales.That's yeah so hard Goods hard good.So yeah t-shirts hats, you know, whatever people put up in the merch World.We're talking about our merch we're not talking about.Well, we haven't I don't know are we talking about our merch? Maybe we can just give a little preview since the people who are listening.Those are probably the more  A cated listeners, right? Okay.So there may or may not be a merch line coming out small drop small quantity merch drop.
Yes.I so it's not going to be like a full store that's going to be open all the time.It's going to be limited not limited edition, but limited quantity right drops so stuff that we've designed and kind of used for the most part local people to help craft these products grass.And also in order to stay in true Becky and Chris, but mostly Becky. Style just mean that you enjoy packaging and you enjoy the whole experience from start to finish including designing everything myself.You've decided to package everything yourself and hand box everything in hand, whatever and hand mail it.Yes yourself right now.We're not using Like A Drop Shipping Company.This is all going to be like straight from yeah, and some people aren't aware of how most merch lines work for YouTubers people generally use a Drop Shipping Company that handles fulfillment so they handle the production.
 Auction and fulfillment of the order and they ship it right from that address and it would look like it comes from this YouTubers company, but it actually comes from the warehouse in which the Drop Shipping is happening.Right? So the basically the YouTuber who you buy the merch from has never seen that shirt that he's they're sending you and they've never involved themselves other than submitting a design online and having another company fulfill it now with that is just fine.
I mean, it's hands-off.It's easy and it's almost like passive income for those people. I think Drop Shipping really really works when you want to have merch available all of the time and you don't want to have a Hands-On approach because running an online store is no joke.That's like a full-time job in itself.Right when it is especially if it gets to a size that's unmanageable.
Definitely.So it makes sense to do Drop Shipping for the most part but for me because we run a screen printing Studio which we talked about in episode wine.Unfortunately, we have a very Discerning Eye for Quality prints and types of prints and whatever so  We have decided instead of doing Drop Shipping which is what we're going to do originally that we would instead do limited runs with a local screen printing company that we trust here in Buffalo.
Yeah, and that way you can control and this also being the First Merch drop we wanted everything to be good.We don't want to we didn't want to like just chance it with a random Fulfillment company and have things go awry on our first go at merch and only have people angry for this run we've decided to do it ourselves.I don't think it would fault us for that. And we'll just say it's packaged with love.Yeah a little bit of love their little bit of trouble little love.Sorry if there's like a hair in the package because I can't control my hair falling out.She sheds are so many hairs around the head of hair issue.Okay, so merch is the third one.Do you have anything else to add on March? I will say though that it doesn't preclude us from oh, you know using a drop ship coming in the future if maybe at one point, we do want to have full-time merch available.It's much more sustainable because they deal with returns and exchanges and things whereas like for us.
 Not going to have returns or exchanges because it's like a drop once it's gone.It's not going to be there again until we do another run.So I feel like there's definitely Drop Shipping definitely has a lot of perks a lot of perks.Yeah for this one.Anyway, we'll keep it at doing ourselves and probably going to hate it so then eventually because we have to do it once and then if it's shit, then that was hard Goods.Yes or light actual, you know physical products.Yeah, and then you have digital Goods.Yeah virtual products, which is actually in our space. Ace the sort of we're sort of in the photo video tech side of things Board of yeah, we're in there.
I mean we don't do reviews right but we still do tutorials and we're very happy.And yeah, so in that realm of Photography and video and film there Comes The Entity of presets.So for people who aren't in that area or don't consume all that media.It's basically filters for your photos or video.So let's being something called a lookup table, which basically is a filter for your video or presets for Lightroom to edit your photos. Like somebody would see your photos can look closer to your favorite creators images so that people sell their presets and that's kind of a nice thing for a lot.We know a lot of creators who sell their presets.We actually don't ya but some people who we know do and they say that that's a great source of Revenue.Yeah, because it requires them to create the set and then it's all passive income and just sells itself.
You know, really there's no production involved a cost.We've chosen  a not to sell a presets at this juncture.I'll all of the ways we edit things and you've done tutorials about how to grade footage how to edit your photos.So anyway wants to Becky Chris look you can learn how to do it on our YouTube channel.Okay, so that's merch so four and five are kind of like one of the same but they're different and if you guys are like starting a YouTube channel, you're curious about like monetizing.
I think this is kind of good to talk about.So we've got Brian Integrations like brand Partnerships like Integrations would kind of be like when  Integrate a brand or a sponsored thing into your video, but you only talk about it for a portion of the video.So say like will take P because Pete is doing these awesome Squarespace ads hold you like what I would call like an integration where he does like a 30-second ad for Squarespace and it but the video was about something else and for me a partnership would be like a dedicated video.So you do like a full video on a thing and then somebody pays you for that entire video.Would you agree with those two? Yeah.I mean, that's kind of how most  Brand sponsorships or brand sponsored videos work.I mean it's either they have certain generally will give you a list of deliverables that they want and you have to build usually brands are pretty good about letting you have freedom as to how to integrate it but in the end of the day all they want is you to integrate it in an authentic way so that your it comes off as authentic and your viewers aren't alien you to buy it and it doesn't look bad for their product.
 And of course, it doesn't hurt your channel, but that's this is always been the age-old Dilemma for people who are you know in the social media space who have monetize or started making money off of it is how do I integrate? How do I make money off this so I can do this as a job without alienating my viewers and there's a fine line.
I think absolutely I feel like it's really important when you're looking for Brands to work with is to find Brands a that you really like that you would actually use and  Is that you feel like fit with your look with your brand? So like take for example, like for us don't really have any issue.
We kind of fit into like a lot of boxes, but we do like very photo/video visuals like heavy and then it's kind of like a helicopter and travel and stuff.So if we did like an ad for health supplements, it wouldn't work and people would be like what the fuck is this, you know is it's so left field.It just doesn't work with our brand and it doesn't work.We would never use health supplement also, like I have I don't believe in health supplements right the most part. Yeah, but like you really have to be careful with who you partner with for example for us and we didn't monetize for a long time.And then we did we had not that we had to be careful.But we wanted to be careful.We're still careful.We're still careful.We'll still very careful and very selective.Yeah, because at this point we've made a decision look, you know, the partnership's that we do doesn't dictate that doesn't dictate whether we have food on the table, right? So we've made a decision up front Okay when we're starting  To monetize.Let's only partner with brands that we would actually use for that.We already use.Yeah, like we've had noticed so many Partnerships because they just want a fit.
I don't think there's anything wrong with putting doing sponsor content and you know, I think more power to you if your Creator and you can like sign a brand for multiple videos and you can put you know, six months of ads in your video.I think that's awesome.It's guaranteed revenue for that six months for me.I I don't want to always make a video that I'm getting paid for and then like have to do  Over on a certain date with certain deliverables like sometimes I just want to make a video about whatever the fuck I want to make a video about and I want to say fuck so I don't want you know what I mean? Like I don't want to be tied in all the time to doing I love doing branded stuff because I love working.
It's almost like working with clients on a freelance level but better, you know, we're working with Brands.So I don't want to monetize every single video in that way.We've done some Partnerships say recently.For example with Nvidia.This podcast is not sponsored.This is not sponsored by yeah. I use the full name.Yeah, so they basically have a killer graphics card their laptop that's geared towards people who create like us, you know, funny enough.I was chirping you over multiple videos leading up to this little years today Becky get a PC get a PC and then all of a sudden someone that you've always been like you get a piece.
He's like, well, I don't really have a computer at this point.I'm just going to share a computer with you.Yeah, but then lo and behold the video came in and we're just like, oh, hey, you know, we can give you this laptop and you were like,  PC amount with a graphics card that can ya see I'm platform-agnostic cassadine.That's true.I'm platform that you are here.Yeah, Mac PC, whatever.I think the look at the shed.
They're just tools.Yeah like you burn. Times I call you a piece of shit, like like reason for divorce called me a piece of shit ten times this week because so many poop on a rocket and gold new piece of shit.I didn't call you piece of shit after I saw you poop again, you dick but I've never no regrets.Yeah.Anyway, let's back to the back to the topic.Yeah.So back to the brand.Yeah.So that was a good fit.It's something that we've had even like almost like we let up to it multiple videos by acts by accident exactly.So that was a great fit.We did one with Sony. Yeah, we're great fed.Yeah, you were talking about, you know, you had one of their cameras already that you're using for is again.
This would be a great intro vlogger camera and we always do stuff like that, you know, what's in our kit and recommendations for people who are starting channels.So that was a natural fit for us as well.Definitely.But like yeah, like you said we weren't rocking to do a health supplement sad because it's just not a fit.Yeah, and I think also getting back to kind of how we started off.You know, this was always just kind of like a little Hobby  In a side project.
So the need to monetize wasn't really there to you know, like I said put food on the table.So I think that were in a very very very lucky position so that we can say no to whatever we want.We could go a whole year without monetizing anything and it probably wouldn't appreciably change a lot.Our monetization is pay for my camera addiction.Well, yeah like and and again creating a YouTube channel.It's not free you. Dear.Yeah, and that's the nice thing too about being able to monetize him making money from your YouTube channel.It's like, okay suddenly your camera breaks.You need a new piece of gear.Well now I have this business where I can buy this Gear with the money.I'm making for my YouTube channel and then also like write it off or depreciate it over a certain amount of years through my business as a business expense, right? It's everything's everything that you would otherwise have to buy is now businessmen and that's no different than what we were used to doing right when you ran bold creative up north of the border right and you had your you had you  Had that company for ten years.So we were we had we were used to writing off camera equipment for 10 years and all of a sudden came the US and Alice sudden were paying out of pocket post tax dollars for all of our gear and I was crying silently and it hurt it hurt.But now we don't have to do that because we've monetized.Yeah, so we're back to our original upbringing.Yeah, so it's it is weird because it's like it's as big change and you're making the money and then, you know the expenses of the year, but it does it does make sense.
If you do start a business the legit way business expense like a new computer if you need it like it's obviously  Still have the pay for it, but it does help you at the end of the year with taxes people thought sometimes think I think too like occupy this camera just write it off.
It's like a free camera, but it's not you still the pay you for it.Yeah, that's I think people who don't or who have never owned a business or have never been in a business like that.They don't really they think that writing something so I can write this off.Oh, don't worry about it.All right, you can write it off or think people say that it's like yeah, you are writing it off.That's just reducing your taxable income.
You're not actually gaining anything for free, right?  Right.It's just you don't have to pay tax on the income that you're using to that you bought this with.Okay, so we talked about monetization.We talked about having to have a certain amount of numbers to make the money with you know for Brands to want to work with you but then also for the affiliate links, but but how do you actually grow your channel? Let's talk about that.How do you actually grow your social me to the point where you can make money and make enough money to like put food on the table? Okay.Well, I have a couple of tips that I wrote down.So Bob sketch.Okay.So first first tip, I would say would be like find your voice.
 Ace and figure out what you're good at and then develop a brand around that so for us like I knew we liked photography we like design and I like helicopters.Well, you like tell copters but that kind of came a little bit later but that's the foundation of our and drones.We know you love drones and sleeping by looking around at this desk and there's drone shit everywhere.
You look this is my this is my drone Factory for now. We're going to change that.I'm going to build you dope ass fucking drum Factory Astron Factory.So yeah, so for us it was like we I think we're like pretty good at like this thing.But now we need to figure out like what's the delivery? Like what's the voice and for us it's just like let's be ourselves and be your weird-ass selves if I'm going to fucking swearing in a square and people don't like it well to add so we've kind of like developed a thing around that and then it's you know, we're consistent.
So that's like tip number two is being consistent and working hard.And so I think that  Consistent with our video uploads while still trying to like progress and get better.Yeah.I seen a lot of people, you know mostly like I feel like on Twitter who will say like, oh I'm having been grown since blah blah or my channels stuck at whatever and you click on the channel and in the last upload was like three months ago.
Yeah, your channel is not going to grow.If you don't I'll take dude.You've been uploading once every week for three years and we still feel like we're lost in the noise because there's so many uploads.Can you really are  Honestly truly believe that your channel is going to grow if you're uploading once every three months.
Yeah, when how much video goes up on YouTube every day? Oh, I have no idea about a lot.Yeah, like there it's way above real time like every second of every second that goes by there's you know hours of video that could upload it so that you really how do you expect to pop up out of the noise when you're only uploading once every three months? Yeah.It just doesn't work like that.So unfortunately if you want to be seen with even Instagram that you  The show up.
Yeah the show up when you have to interact with your people people are taking their time out of the day to like comment on your shit.Like you have to take time of your day to come on back or whatever and it gets weird when your channel starts to grow large because the amount of interactions grow significantly and so if you say I'm going to respond to everything then you just have time to make videos anymore really be responding to comments all day all day, which is not a I mean, I don't want I don't want to sound like oh, boohoo.People are commenting honest.Yeah.It's true.I love that.I'd love to interact with every  single person.It's just not feasible to do that.But when you're starting off, well, I think even as you grow it still important to interact with them, but if you're starting off like you really need to interact with people and interacting with also people who are similar size similar Niche you're doing similar things.
Yeah.It was like that's my next thing.It's like finding people who are similar size with similar interests in like working with them.So instead of being like hey, you know, Casey neistat, you have 10 million subscribers and I have  500 subscribers do you want to collab with me or it's not gonna want to go what's it? Like what course that is going to see your message? No because he's getting bombarded with like thousands of messages.I'm right so find people who are 500 subscribers like you or a thousand subscribers like you or who are in the same stuff.Well, how about just don't worry about the subscriber count and just you Chef fun because at this stage if your only goal is to grow your channel, then you're doing it for the wrong reasons only.Yeah, and I think to like people talk about collaborations, I think collaborations are really important if you're going to reach out to somebody  D for collaboration, I think it's a I think you should be reaching out to people who are like within the same size.
Hmm, which we already talked about to you can't just say do you want to collaborate you need to come up with an idea? What is the value for both parties? Like what are you offering them? And what can they offer you? You can't just be like, hey, can you come on my Channel or give me a shout out? Like it doesn't work like that back when we were in Vancouver.I think we're talking to Brad Friesen about this.Yeah, you know he had so many people. Just hit them up because they wanted free helicopter rides and I get it now because we have the same we get the same DMS, right and he laid it out bluntly.Like he's a pretty like blond guy when it comes to those things and he was just like look, I have a budget which I've allotted myself X number of hours to fly per year.
Why would I just take you up randomly when I don't know you and use x percent of my budgeted hours.Just flying you around right? You know you YouTube channel or not you  No, what's your like? What do you have to bring to the table? What do you want to do? What's my time and basically my money correct? Because in time in helicopters time equals money and so you're basically why did why why do you want my money? Tell me what I'm getting out of this in this transaction and it's you know, I don't I try to move away from looking at everything is transactions.
But in that case you really have to look at as a transaction because yeah, it does make a huge difference you give somebody an hour of your time who don't know that's an hour of time that you can't take your mother up in the helicopter or  Friend or or a co-worker, you know, it's so it's yeah there has to be value.And again if Brad I get it.Yes.Okay.So moving away from that.My last thing would be like be patient because people expect it to happen.Oh, I've been posting for three months straight.Where's the growth? It took us two and a half years to get to 5000 subscribers two and a half years.Yeah 5000 subscribers is mouths, and I celebrated was excited for but at no point within that two years was I  Like I think I'm going to stop posting YouTube videos because I'm not getting subscribers right because we were doing it from the get-go because it was a a basically a diary of our life.
Exactly.Yeah, and we're like, well, we're going to have a whole catalog fully little tiny movies that our kids our grandkids could watch and say oh, what's mom, what would what were Mom and Dad up to in 2017? Exactly.So yeah, so I like just be patient with it like kids going back.We don't give a shit about your YouTube channel.Parents videos are fucking shit.It's like, all right, Mom and Dad you're washed up.Yeah. We get it.
Yes the shut up about the YouTube channel.Nobody cares.Okay, Chris, we're gonna introduce a new segment to this podcast called that's freaking deadly but what's deadly your face? Thank you.I've got your item that what you're sharing in my face my thing.That's deadly is your face.Yeah.Okay.I'm sharing my husband's face today.So we're going to introduce a couple of different segments in this podcast.
This is the first one called that  It's friggin deadly where we share something that we really like or that we're really into at the moment.So I'm going to share my thing first and then you can share yours.Okay, this is not sponsored.But I am a part of like a coffee subscription where I pay like a certain amount per month and the company.I think it's called trade sends me a bag of coffee like that.I can go and check on the internet of like what's coming next, but I choose not to beans show off my mailbox. Bean Juice Bean Juice just so when I like never run out of coffee.That's excellent.That's perfect for you because antastic you've always run out of beans and then I had to go to the bean store.
Ya gotta go that bean store.Hey the coffee, she's me Chris.I'll be right back with the bean store.Sometimes you don't get the car because I'm lazy piece of the Amazon generation that we live in I know but I'm afraid to order beans on Amazon.You don't know what's in there.I mean, you don't know what's coming from your coffee Club know I do because that's like a legit coffee Club.
 Bob anyway, so actually I heard about it from Craig Adams.I think he's like sponsored by these people.So I was like, oh that sounds cool.So I like did it.Oh, so you converted from his ad I did you go my God.Yeah did well sir.I was influenced by Craig Adams YouTuber I ge you got whatever that's a great content whose content is fantastic.If you guys don't know who we're talking about.You should check them out Craig Adams on YouTube.So what's Delhi for me is fpv drones not surprised that you said that and I can talk on this topic for a long time, but I'll I'll give you a quick synopsis.
 Fpv stands for first person view and they're basically drones that you build yourself and they have camera little cameras on them and they beam the beam they they beam the image back to your little goggles and you have a remote controller and you just fly the Drone through the goggles and of course in order to comply with FAA, we have to have a visual Observer on the ground who is maintaining line of sight at all times.But yeah FP Jones, I've been really into it.So we  we've made a couple videos on our YouTube channel about them because they can give these really interesting Vantage Point see that you literally couldn't get with any other device.
Right? I mean, they're probably most like helicopter aerial footage where the with the bank turns and things like that, but you can fly them in tight little spaces so you can shoot through the tiny gaps that obviously you couldn't do in a helicopter.So they really are they've it's created this new genre of  Yeah, we're going to assess you've been like really into the FBI.Well, it allows me to get are because interestingly enough and not getting too into this.But the thing that got me in a helicopters was being able to the thought of being able to capture these amazing shots of this first person views with cameras that are knows mounts on the helicopter and I'm like when I was a kid, I saw these this video in music class of all classes of these sweeping shots going across following a river and I was like, oh my God, that's the  The most amazing feeling ever and I love the way that video made me feel as a kid so cute and I've been chasing that with helicopters.Unfortunately, that's why you're always like bombing riverbeds and shit.Yeah, unfortunately, that's the most dangerous way to fly is flying low flying fast, you know, snap of the earth Style flying Vietnam style exhilarating but I fight I feel like fpv drones allow me to take that one step further and just do Insane stuff with a camera that I obviously I wouldn't do with a helicopter that I'm  Yeah, and when you know if and when you crash it's a small little drone not a expensive helicopter and death.
Yeah, so so I'm so in conclusion fpv drones.They're deadly.I love it.I love it so much.Well, I'm we're coming up on the time.So see that time.Well, we're Tuxedos and it is times already taxi or time, but I'm getting a little thirst I all right.
Well, we should go eat something and we will see you guys on the next one.Thanks for  listening
